1. About Smart Gnome Control

Smart Gnome Control is a graphical user interface to multiple communications
receivers via the Hamlib library. The specific purpose is to let you control
your communications receiver from a personal computer, and to simplify the 
hobby of shortwave radio listening. The Smart Gnome Control interface is 
designed to automatically reconfigure according to the known capabilities of
your receiver. It is also designed to provide database-driven tuning, memory
and logging capabilities, based on FineWare's (discontinued) Smart Control
series of receiver control packages for Windows. The Smart Gnome Control
interface is written for Linux and Cygwin in GNU C/C++, using Glade, Gdk/Gtk+
and curl. It also requires version 4.6 or later of Hamlib.


2. Compiling Smart Gnome Control

To compile Smart Gnome Control you will need:

* Hamlib 4.6
* curl 8.11
* Gtk+ 3.24
* Gdk 3.24
* GLib 2.84 

These packages (except Hamlib) are included in every modern non-specialized
linux distribution. You will also need the so-called development files of each
package which include the header files and static libraries.

To compile Smart Gnome Control you should first run 'sh ./autogen.sh'. This will
create a 'configure' script for later re-configuration. However, 'autogen' will
usually run 'configure' automatically.

If you don't get any errors, type 'make'. The program should now compile without
warnings and you should end up with an executable binary, 'sgcontrol', in the
'src' subdirectory.

To install the program into your system, type 'sudo make install' (only done as 
root). To install a slimmer version of sgcontrol, type 'sudo make install-strip'.


3. Using Smart Gnome Control

The first time you run Smart Gnome Control it will display a default display that
is not configured for any particular receiver. In order to set the application for
a particular receiver, select the Tools -> Options menu. This will display all of
the available recievers that Hamlib controls. Select your particular receiver from
the list, choose a communications port from the selection box below it, and click
the Ok button. The application will automatically reconfigure the display for that
particular receiver.

It also comes with a default Eibi database, dated 02 Jun 2025. This should be
updated automatically if an internet connection is available. The application will
automatically check for an updated database, then attempt to download and install
it if one is available. You can turn this option off in the Application tab in
the Options dialog.

I hope you'll have fun using Smart Gnome Control. If you find any bugs or have any
comments feel free to contact me. Bugs and feature requests should be submitted using
the bug tracker on the project page: https://github.com/markjfine/sgcontrol. Hamlib
related bugs should be entered as Issues on the Hamlib project page at
https://github.com/Hamlib/Hamlib.


Mark J. Fine
